now to the conflict in Gaza where fears
are growing of a new Israeli assault on
the south of the strip Israel's military
has suggested it now plans to advance
towards Rafa close to the Egyptian
border the UN says Rafa has become a
pressure cooker of
Despair another strike on can Yunis in
southern Gaza an explosion followed by
gunshots sends people running for their
lives fear danger and bombardments are
coming from all
directions can unise has again become
the focus of Israeli air strikes its
infrastructure has been severely
damaged thousands more displaced gazans
are once more fleeing to Rafa further
south on the border with Egypt and
already
overcrowded in recent days thousands of
Palestinians have continued to flee to
the South uh which is already already
hosting over half the gaza's population
of some 2.3 million
people most are living in makeshift
structures tents or out in the open Rafa
is a pressure cooker of Despair and we
fear for what comes
next the new arrivals in Rafa rely on
food handouts provided by humanitarian
groups or donation centers like this one
Aid workers can only feed a small number
of
displaced we are doing our best to
distribute as much as we can so that as
many of the displaced as possible can
get
food there are thousands of displaced
people in Rafa and we can't serve them
all everyone here is hoping the latest
attempts to secure a ceasefire will pay
off uh straight to Jerusalem um we can
join our correspondent Rebecca rits
welcome Rebecca uh let's start with the
latest on the Israeli offensive in
Gaza yeah we'll Phil Israel has been
continuing its campaign in the South uh
specifically around hunus as you were
just hearing in that report now hunas
has been a focus of the Israeli military
for some weeks now they say it is a hot
bed of Hamas Terror terrorists as they
call them it's they say that they're uh
a lot of Hamas leaders there hiding
underground that there are command
centers uh there are manufacturing sites
launch pads um so they're really been
focusing on their both aerial
bombardments and uh also the ground
offensive that's while there's still
fighting going on in the Central and
Northern parts of the strip now this all
comes despite the fact that Israel said
a few weeks ago that it was going to be
winding back uh it's this phase or I
should say moving into the next phase
the sort of more targeted phase and
moving away from this um continuous
bombardments and really quite large
ground offensive into uh the next phase
that would be more targeted as I just
said uh that's been at the urging of the
us but as we can see from that report
there that hasn't been happening uh the
Hamas ran Health Ministry reported more
than 100 deaths um people that were
killed overnight in the last 24-hour
period that is of course expected to
rise again tomorrow and as you heard
there the defense minister the Israeli
defense minister saying that they are
going to push further south targeting
that Rafa border region that Rafa that's
Southernmost city where of course more
than half of the population of Gaza more
than 1 million people are now trying to
shelter trying to stay away from the
worst of the fighting really not clear
where those people will go many of them
having already evacuated some several
times
from the north to the center to the
South to to the very south down there in
Rafa and really running out of places to
go right and the latest on negotiations
between Israel and Hamas about a
potential
ceasefire yeah there has been some
cautious optimism particularly coming
from the qaris now they're playing uh a
very large role in these negotiations as
they did with the with the peace or the
the ceasefire uh that was that happened
in November they had a very big role in
that as well now we heard from the
Qatari foreign minister or the
spokesperson saying that uh people could
be cautiously optimistic that something
might happen in a couple of weeks though
it's still too early to say just whether
that will come to fruition and when we
we're seeing the negotiations continue
as they do and we saw something very
similar before that November deal was
struck as well they things went up
things went down it looked positive one
one minute and and not so positive the
next so it's really hard to tell when
something might happen Hamas still they
say going over the proposal it does look
like the Israelis have already come to
some agreement but that Hamas uh haven't
yet agreed to the deal and they are now
putting on the table that they want some
very high level people to be released
from Israeli prisons whether or not
Israel would agree to such a measure uh
really remains to be seen Phil so that
deal uh hopeful cautious optimism as I
said but still could be some weeks away
okay thank you that Rebecca writs in
Jerusalem